# IoTPlant

IoTPlantV2!! 🪴🤖 In this version I explored the positive impact of human generated autonomy. Whether it’s on a small scale and you are going on vacation needing a way to keep your plant from dying. Or on a much larger scale like distributing sensors around trees in high risk forest fire locations and then providing water instantly when a fire is detected, way before a firefighter could ever get there. I believe that what systems we choose to automate will be the deciding factor in how our future shapes up. Just as we are creating autonomous systems for war/deforestation/destruction we are able to use that same intellect to automate ways to gather information on nature and then provide the appropriate solutions, automatically, with little human interaction. Thus allowing nature to flourish along side of us.

How V2 works is the Arduino first asks the soil moisture sensor for a reading, but unlike V1 where python code would be watching for this reading, V2 compares this reading with a condition for the pump system (< 10% moisture), if that condition is met, the Arduino sends power to a relay and fires on the pump for 3 seconds, waits 10, reads the moisture again, fires for 3.. until the soil is above the threshold of 10% moisture. Python code is still watching but it is now watching for the pump to trigger. When it finds that the pump has triggered it automatically updates me via the plants own Twitter telling me what the soil moisture % was, that it is watering/ taking care of it, and the current humidity in the room. Along side the software updates there are hardware upgrades as well: a much better soil moisture sensor (a capacitive one that won’t corrode in the soil and gives more accurate reads), a humidity sensor for extra data, the water pump system of course and I also strapped it to a portable battery pack if I want to use the system for any of my other plants.

Really enjoying expanding these concepts and already working on the most insane idea for V3🪴
